As you learn more about a possible career in data science one thing is going to become really clear
and that's that data science is interdisciplinary.
So what does that actually mean.
Well it means there's many skills or disciplines that you're going to need in order to continue a career
path down data science.
Now there's three main skill sets.
One is computer science.
The other one is Mathis's mystics.
And then finally domain knowledge and the intersection of all three of these is where data science really
begins to shine.
Now computer sciences are things like coding or data structures and algorithms math and still sticks
that's just basics sticks and probability theory and then domain knowledge.
That's actually your expertise in whatever field you're working in.
So if you're a data scientist that Facebook your domain knowledge may be things like understanding social
networks if youre a data scientist in some sort of candy bar or a factory that's going to be understanding
the different aspects of what makes a candy bar those kind of things.
And you can see these different intersections that kind of expand beyond data scientists.
So typically if you're just a computer scientist working in a specific domain that makes you a software
engineer if you're more focused on the intersection of math and computer science without really caring
about a specific domain then that's more of just pure machine learning and then applying math to sticks
to domain's themselves.
That's just usually traditional research applies to to test two different data from a domain and the
intersection of all these ideas is really data science itself.
Now keep in mind this is a lot to learn.
And employers are really looking for what they call T-shaped candidates and it T-shaped candidate is
called that way because you'll have general knowledge about a lot of these topics.
Computer Science domain knowledge math statistics probability.
And then you'll hopefully have some sort of expertise in a specific domain.
Maybe you're one of the best at a particular library in Python or you're very good at data visualization.
So that's what a ship can looks like.
You have general knowledge of a lot of topics and then you have a key expertise that you can leverage
for the potential employer.
So again candidates who have a general standing of lots of topics and a deep expertise in one or a few
topics are known as T shirt candidates and those are highly desirable candidates in the data science
field.
So let's go ahead and move on by discussing data science positions and titles.